Let's look at design patterns, starting with the Observer.
Now, while design principles sit very high in theory, design patterns begin a little bit more to be
anchored in computer science and specific solutions.
Still, they are language agnostic.
You can apply these same patterns to a variety of different programming languages and platforms.
You can think of a design pattern as a reusable type of solution for a design problem.
Now, you can imagine in your project, there's a lot of things you're doing that are unique to the
needs of your game, but a lot of the different problems that will arise and how you'll need to organize.
Things have been done before in software.
Some benefits of using design patterns are that they're proven.
Many of these challenges have been solved before and solved quite well, so why not learn from those?
And they can lead to much faster development as well as easier maintenance.
Here we see a list of some of the most popular design patterns.
There's certainly many more, and you can even define your own design patterns.
But being familiar with about 20 of them here gives you a nice library to begin thinking about your
projects.
There's three major types Creational patterns make new stuff.
Structural patterns organize how that stuff is set up and behavioral patterns define how these systems
behave with each other.
We'll look closely at just a few of these since they relate directly to the architectures we'll look
at later.
A tremendously popular one, one that you're probably already using, especially as a unit developer,
is the observer pattern.
The observer pattern defines how to or more objects may communicate together.
Now we know a class can get a reference to a second class and call a method directly on that.
It needs to have that reference and it needs to know exactly which method to call.
That's an example of tightly connected or tightly coupled relationships.
The benefits of the observer is it's not so tightly connected.
While a class does need a reference to that sender, it's able to more easily exchange data and isolate
the problems that come from changing one without changing the other.
It also allows you to have multiple observers and easily add and remove them as we go through this pattern
and others, take a look at the diagram and apply what we've learned about UML to understand a little
bit more.
And with each of these patterns, there's an excellent opportunity to do some additional research.
Here's an observer example for unity.
Now, there are several ways to solve this in unity, but a first party solution that I'm sure you're
familiar with in Unity is the unity event.
There's three main parts to call out here creating the event, listening to the event and invoking the
event.
All are shown here.
Now, typically we would do this across two or more classes, but for brevity sake, I'm showing a class
listening to itself, so to speak.
Now, while the last example was built into unity, here's a custom class that you'll see later when
we get into the code.
I took some of the same concepts of the Unity event and I put them inside the observable class.
Here.
In this example of the observable, I'm able to create an observable listen to an observable and invoke
that observable.
It's such a common pattern, especially when you separate your data from the rest of your game logic
to one to subscribe to when the data changes.
This observable class is a really easy way to get the observer pattern tied.
Any time value changes.
You can see that happening in the code here.
And like the last example.
Typically we would use two or more classes as a full demo, but for brevity sake, I put it in one class
file.
The observer pattern is so fundamental and beneficial if you find that you've been using it just enough
but not really understanding or feeling like you're taking advantage.
Definitely go check it out more.
We'll see it in some of the examples we'll do in our samples later.
But also you can see it throughout many different APIs and SDKs plugged in with your Unity projects.
It's tremendously simple and powerful to start separating out the different areas of your code, which
will bring some benefits.
Thanks.